&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;It seems customary that whenever someone writes a blog, they start out by writing a post titled, "Hello world!". Some [follow with a series of hello world programs](https://hardmath123.github.io/hw.html), while others [analyze the practice](http://bobbybee.github.io/Hello-World.html).

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I have decided, rather than to do either of these, to post a list of prerequisites - statements, opinions, and warnings about what to expect on this blog, since a lot of the content will involve naming controversies. And other similar things we should all spend less time arguing about. I will update the list as needed later.

Prerequisite Statements for This Blog:
- There exists a controversy about whether to call it [free or open source software](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software#Controversy), and another similar one about [whether to call it Linux or GNU/Linux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU/Linux_naming_controversy). I have heard both sides of the argument and made the decision to call them open source and Linux, respectively. Although I may sometimes opt for neutral terms like FLOSS and (GNU/)Linux, I likely will not change the basis of my decision any time soon, and if at some point I do, I will not change it because of a knee-jerk contradiction to my word usage.
- I'm not a big fan of standardized grammar. I follow it where I can, but I do not go out of my way to follow it. Therefore, some of these posts will have sentances that some people say are incorrect. At some point, perhaps I will elaborate on my opinion about this, but for now, just try to keep non-intrusive grammar errors to yourself. Intrusive thing, but, are importants changing.
- Yes, this blog is copyrighted. Yes, I'm considering whether to change it. No, I haven't changed it yet.
- Hello world!